# Fresh-or-Rotten-
Today, we live in an era where our fast-paced lifestyle affects our eating habits, including fruit, more than ever. Therefore, neglecting the health of the fruit we consume can lead to the entry of microorganisms such as microbes and bacteria into the body and endanger our health and society’s health. As a result, fruit ripening detection reveals its importance well in this field. In this research, we examine the detection of the ripeness of fruits with the help of machine vision, which, in addition to being a non-destructive detective method at first glance that seems necessary to increase the life of the fruit and the progress of the food industry, it can serve lofty goals such as serving the visually impaired and blind. Also included In this research, a diverse range of processing, from changing the brightness and noise level to rotation and flipping, has been performed on a dataset with more than 13,000 images of three fruits: banana, orange, and apple in fresh and rotten states. Further, in the final model, the transfer learning method was implemented in 17 epochs and the fine-tuning method was also implemented in 17 epochs on a model based on the VGG16 convolutional neural network and the fully connected part of our design, and good results were obtained on the test dataset that includes data from all three fruits in normal mode, having 5 percent salt and pepper noise, in different angles rotated, etc. According to the results, our main criterion, which was accuracy, reached 99.19%. The prediction time of each data was 8.5 milliseconds and the training duration of the model was 11846 seconds per 34 epochs. The criteria of precision, recall and F1-score all showed 0.99 and all these results were obtained with the least electricity consumption to pay attention to the preservation of the environment. Finally, our model showed good performance potential for test datasets including other fruits.
Key Words: Computer Vision, Transfer Learning, Fine-tuning, VGG16 convolution neural network, Environment

